monitoring-and-alerting/monitoring.md, before:

# Monitoring

## Prerequisites

1. [(doc)](../virtual-machines/virtual-machines.md) A virtual machine to run
   the monitoring from
2. The VM needs to have a [User-Assigned Managed
   Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-manage-ua-identity-portal). *Save the client
   ID.* You will need it later.
3. That Managed Identity needs to be assigned the Monitoring Metrics Publisher
   role in:
   - the Resource Group that contains the VMs being monitored
   - the Log Analytics workspace which is going to hold the spillover metrics
     that don't have a more specific Resource ID to attach to
4. The VM needs to have a public IPv4 and IPv6 address attached to it.
5. The VM needs to have [the .net
   SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/) installed on it.
   This is so that you can build Monch. See below.

Number 3 probably bears some clarification. See [the
discussion](rationale-and-motivations.md#slight-fly-in-the-ointment) of the
fact that Azure needs the metrics that you publish, to be hung off of a
specific Resource ID. So that means that the Managed Identity that Monch
is going to run as, needs access to be able to publish metrics to the
places it needs to publish them to. Namely, (a) the VMs that the metrics
relate to, if they relate to VMs, and (b) the Log Analytics workspace,
if they don't.

Regarding number 4, it's because we need ICMP to be able to do pings, and
the NAT that Azure gives you by default, doesn't pass ICMP. It should be
locked down tight with a security group that doesn't allow anything
inbound except ICMP.

## Setup

First, build [monch](monch/) on the VM, and copy the binary to
`/usr/local/bin/monch`.

Next, make a `monitoring` user and add some stuff to its crontab:

```
sudo useradd monitoring
sudo crontab -e -u monitoring
```

```
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns 1.2.3.4 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns 1::2 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/log/analytics/workspace --resource-region westus2 --service-name home-machine ping 5.6.7.8 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/log/analytics/workspace --resource-region westus2 --service-name home-machine ping 5::6 > /dev/null 2>&1
```

The client ID should be the client ID of the checker VM's User-Assigned
Managed Identity. It's needed because there's also a System-Assigned Managed
Identity, and when you get a token, the metadata server doesn't know which
Managed Identity to feed you. So you have to tell it explicitly which one
you want.

Note that monch is capable of doing DNS lookups on hostnames, and if it finds
both an A record and a AAAA record on a hostname you give it, it'll try both.
So you may be able to get away with things like:

```
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns hostname.of.dns.server > /dev/null 2>&1
```

if the DNS name `hostname.of.dns.server` has both A and AAAA.

Commit message:

Add another explanatory paragraph about what --service-name does.

monitoring-and-alerting/monitoring.md, after:

# Monitoring

## Prerequisites

1. [(doc)](../virtual-machines/virtual-machines.md) A virtual machine to run
   the monitoring from
2. The VM needs to have a [User-Assigned Managed
   Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-manage-ua-identity-portal). *Save the client
   ID.* You will need it later.
3. That Managed Identity needs to be assigned the Monitoring Metrics Publisher
   role in:
   - the Resource Group that contains the VMs being monitored
   - the Log Analytics workspace which is going to hold the spillover metrics
     that don't have a more specific Resource ID to attach to
4. The VM needs to have a public IPv4 and IPv6 address attached to it.
5. The VM needs to have [the .net
   SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/) installed on it.
   This is so that you can build Monch. See below.

Number 3 probably bears some clarification. See [the
discussion](rationale-and-motivations.md#slight-fly-in-the-ointment) of the
fact that Azure needs the metrics that you publish, to be hung off of a
specific Resource ID. So that means that the Managed Identity that Monch
is going to run as, needs access to be able to publish metrics to the
places it needs to publish them to. Namely, (a) the VMs that the metrics
relate to, if they relate to VMs, and (b) the Log Analytics workspace,
if they don't.

Regarding number 4, it's because we need ICMP to be able to do pings, and
the NAT that Azure gives you by default, doesn't pass ICMP. It should be
locked down tight with a security group that doesn't allow anything
inbound except ICMP.

## Setup

First, build [monch](monch/) on the VM, and copy the binary to
`/usr/local/bin/monch`.

Next, make a `monitoring` user and add some stuff to its crontab:

```
sudo useradd monitoring
sudo crontab -e -u monitoring
```

```
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns 1.2.3.4 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns 1::2 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/log/analytics/workspace --resource-region westus2 --service-name home-machine ping 5.6.7.8 > /dev/null 2>&1
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/log/analytics/workspace --resource-region westus2 --service-name home-machine ping 5::6 > /dev/null 2>&1
```

The client ID should be the client ID of the checker VM's User-Assigned
Managed Identity. It's needed because there's also a System-Assigned Managed
Identity, and when you get a token, the metadata server doesn't know which
Managed Identity to feed you. So you have to tell it explicitly which one
you want.

The `--service-name` is just a human readable string to associate with the
thing you're pinging. In this case, since I'm pinging my home machine, I
set it to `home-machine`. It's optional, but recommended in cases where
there's no good Resource ID to use so you have to use the Log Analytics
workspace's resource ID.

Note that monch is capable of doing DNS lookups on hostnames, and if it finds
both an A record and a AAAA record on a hostname you give it, it'll try both.
So you may be able to get away with things like:

```
* * * * * /usr/local/bin/monch --auth-client-id d73d436e-bcfb-468d-bd70-a227a27cb462 --resource /resource/id/of/dns/resolver/vm --resource-region westus2 recursive-dns hostname.of.dns.server > /dev/null 2>&1
```

if the DNS name `hostname.of.dns.server` has both A and AAAA.
